[Applause]
i'm martha maccallum great to be here
tonight pennsylvania of course was
critical in securing president Trump's
victory in 2016 and it is a state that
he may need again this November this
comes as the Democratic field hoping to
challenge him is narrowing only two
major candidates remain former Vice
President Joe Biden and Vermont senator
Bernie Sanders President Trump has
already held rallies across the country
touting record jobs new trade deals and
an overall strong economy so will that
message resonate here as he looks to
become the first Republican since Ronald
Reagan to win Pennsylvania twice
ladies and gentlemen President Donald
Trump
[Applause]
thank you
everybody we'd love to get to a lot of
questions tonight there are a lot of
good questions from residents here in
Scranton they want to talk about big
issues so we can jump right in with the
first questioner from our audience thank
you again mr. president for meeting here
tonight
Catherine Pugh is joining us she is an
undecided voter and she has a question
for president Trump Kathryn mr.
president at the outset of the
coronavirus your administration's
response seemed to some as being
confusing or minimizing what plans are
being considered on a federal level for
the possibility of a long-term
disruption from the novel coronavirus
well actually we're giving I think
really given tremendous marks you look
at Gallup poll you look at other polls
for the way we've handled it and one of
the things I did is I closed down the
borders to China and to other areas that
are very badly affected and really
having a lot of troubles I mean
countries and areas of countries that
have had a lot of problem and I closed
them down very early against the advice
of almost everybody and we've been given
rave reviews and that's why we have only
right now Allah it's a lot of people but
it's still 11 people versus tremendous
numbers of thousands of people that have
died all over the world we have 11 we
have a hundred and forty-nine cases as
of this moment this morning was 129 and
I just see you right now it's about 149
cases there are a hundred thousand cases
all over the world so we were really
given tremendous marks for having made
the decision that was a decision I made
to close down the border so that people
from China where we take in thousands
and thousands of people a day they
stopped coming in very early weeks ahead
of where they normally would have been
stuffed mr. president you've said you
want to take politics out of dealing
with this crisis but in the White House
yesterday you said that about the
testing kits in the delay you blame
President Obama well I don't blame
anybody I want to get everybody to
understand they made some decisions
which were not good decisions we
inherited decisions that they made and
that's fine because we yes we undid some
of the regulations that were made that
made it very difficult but I'm not
blaming anybody it just seems that the
Democrats some of them I must say and
you know it better than anybody Britt
it's become much better but some of the
Democrats have said no matter what if we
found a cure and everybody's better
tomorrow morning at nine o'clock they
would say he's done a terrible job it's
just automatic how is the president
doing Oh terrible terrible they don't
mean it and we've done a great job again
we've gotten the highest poll numbers of
anybody for this kind of a thing and
it's and the other thing I'm working
with phenomenal people with CDC and all
of the people involved Mike Pence is
doing a fantastic job I mean Mike Pence
is working 20 hours a day or more on
this and really doing a fantastic job
I guess the critics say that why wait
until the testing issue became a crisis
before dealing with it if you want to
change the regulations why not change
them either when he took office or when
you first learned of the virus in
January for example South Korea really
got their act together right away that's
what they said well you know when you
say take office we just learned about
this a very short while around but or
when you learned about the violence
you're not gonna be think I thinking
about a lot of other things to trade and
millions of other things I mean we are
doing some job with the economy and so
I'm not thinking about this but as soon
as I heard that China had a problem I
said what's going on with China how many
people are coming in nobody but me asked
that question and you know better than
again you know you both know that I
close the borders very early you were
getting given a pay pluses for that
you're just talking to a lot of lives
nursing kids well the testing we did it
as soon as we found out that it was a
problem we did it it's not the kind of a
thing you say gee I just got elected
let's do some testing on this they had
some bad decisions some bad decisions
were made we corrected those decisions
so obviously you care a lot about the
economy and we are seeing some impacts
it's kind of surprising how many
conferences are being shut down and
meetings are being canceled and flights
a lot of flights have been canceled
even the James Bond movie they're
delaying because of coronavirus I'm
wondering what you think is the long
term you know over the course of the
year Wall Street says that they don't
expect US companies to have any growth
in twenty
20 which is pretty surprising what's the
impact on the economy and also
potentially on your reelection well I
think people are viewing us as having
done a very good job what we have to do
is do a very professional job nobody is
blaming us for the virus nobody I mean I
haven't heard that even from some of the
so-called enemies or whatever you want
to call them they're not blaming us it
started in China how it started there's
question but thousands and thousands of
cases in China and it infiltrated to
almost a hundred countries right now
excuse me I don't mean to but I'm just
asking about you know in terms of things
you can't control right the impact on
the economy and that potentially you
know that could if people feel like the
economy is turning around it that could
be an election issue as you go into it
well look we were set to hit 30,000 on
the Dow this is a number that nobody
ever even came close to and already we
have the number and even though it's
down ten or eleven percent is still the
highest it's ever been by far it
certainly might have an impact at the
same time I have to say people are now
staying in the United States spending
their money in the US and I like that
you know I've been after that for a long
time you know that I've been saying
let's stay in the US spend your money
here and they're doing that they're sort
of enforced doing that we met with the
airline companies yesterday they're
doing a fantastic job and they're just
not flying to areas that have a big
problem so it's going to all work out
everybody has to become it's all going
to work out but to Katherine's original
question there is a long-term plan if it
lasts more we could have a very long
term plan we hope that doesn't happen
but we're we have plans for every single
possibility and I think that's what we
have to do we hope it doesn't last too
long we want to get to audience
questions Robert is a Trump supporter he
does have a question about rhetoric here
in the campaign Robert mr. president
thank you so much for returning back to
northeastern Pennsylvania thanks the
order of U for the duration and Thank
You Everett for everything that you've
done for this country and continue to do
for this country thank you unfortunately
insult politics have become a staple of
this political environment yeah Joe
Biden has suggested to take us out back
behind the gym and fight you Maxine
Waters has
has a low IQ could there be a way that
we can deliver your message without the
controversial rhetoric in efforts to
reunite this country during these
divisive times well I have to tell you I
think really appreciate the question I
think the country is far more United
than people think and ultimately what's
uniting the country is success and we're
having more success than we've ever had
we got hit with a virus really three
weeks ago if you think about it I guess
that's when we first started really to
see you know some possible effects but
even despite that the country we are
having the greatest year we had last
year was the greatest year we've ever
had economically and I think the way we
united is really through success but
when they hit us we have to hit back I
feel that I mean there's two ways of
doing it turning your cheek but I
wouldn't be sitting up here if I turned
my cheek if I said okay let them just
keep hitting at me and I won't do it
they're not interviewing me right now
they're interviewing somebody else maybe
they won't even be doing that because if
they don't get ratings they don't
interview anybody but you know what you
can't turn your cheek I mean we get hit
we get hit so hard and we have a media
that is you know I say to a large extent
it's a part of the Democrat Party really
is it's terrible it's unfair I call it
fake news I've used that and people are
using that I guess all over the world
right now and that's the way it is we
have to fight back if we don't fight
back you won't be a fan of mine very
long but I appreciate the question thank
you to ask you to listen to this I want
to tell you about such I want to tell
you Cavanaugh you have released the
whirlwind and you now I should not have
used the words I used yesterday they
didn't come out the way I intended to so
going over some of their response to all
of that President Trump some of your
critics are saying well you know
President Trump has also gone after
liberal judges and that you mean that
blaming me for Schumer know that while
they're saying that you know
[Applause]
apology for your what you've said about
liberal judges or not well look I mean
we had a justice come out and criticized
me badly and I just responded to what
she said I had it twice and when you
look at I had a very harsh criticism as
you know Justice Ginsburg
during the just before debate during the
election as I was getting elected she
came out she had to apologize it was a
terrible thing she said she should have
never been allowed to say it but if they
say something to me I'm not allowed to
say back you had another justice say
something that was somewhat derogatory
and all I did was respond but I didn't
respond like she was shimmered that was
a physical thing in my opinion you know
he tried to say oh well that has to do
with the election that had nothing to do
with the election the way he said we're
gonna hit back like you've never seen
before that was a real intimidation and
the best you can say is they're trying
to intimidate so that the judges vote so
the justices vote their way that's no
good either
but that was a physical that was really
if a Republican did what Jimmer did
they'd be in jail right now
Chief Justice Roberts obviously put out
a statement and and really rebuked
Senator Schumer for those words the last
time he put out one of these rare
statements it was about you and the
federal judge that you called an Obama
judge so the Martha's question is there
something about apologies on both sides
when dealing with justices or judges
well look I have to state the facts I'm
not threatening anybody physically but
if we have an Obama judge we don't do
very well
now we've appointed 220 federal judges
the most I think in history it's a
record because number one Mitch
McConnell did a great job and the
Republicans did a great job but the
bottom line is President Obama gave me
140 two openings what I first got that
normally you would have this but never
been anything like that normally you'd
have no opening now you say he's a great
president the most important thing you
have to do I say is the military but a
lot of people say as judges and justices
of the Supreme Court President Obama
gave us a hundred and forty-two it's
unheard of if you have one it's like you
got lucky at 140 to go up to 220 federal
judges and Court of Appeals judges to
Supreme Court justices I mean it's
incredible but we were going if you go
to the Ninth Circuit if you go certain
places it's almost impossible to win so
I was surprised to justice Robertson I
have a lot of respect for my like him
personally I have a lot of respect but I
think that could have been left unsaid
because a lot of people a lot of very
tough legal minds disagreed with him
when he said it now I'm just talking
about the facts I'm talking about sort
of the facts of life that's the way it
is well let's get back to our questions
our next question is from David Hines
he's a Democrat who decided to vote for
you in 2016 good thanks the president
welcome back to Scranton thank you did
everyone supports protecting the
environment but the EPA seems too
focused on complex regulations fines
fees and lawsuits what can you do to
lead the EPA to focus more on proactive
compliance instead of punitive
enforcement to protect the environment
David I love the question because our
EPA is much different we're very tough
but we get things
and we're taking regulations off like
nobody has ever seen and I say very
simply I want to have the cleanest air
on the planet I want to have the most
crystal-clear beautiful water on the
planet and our conditions now are much
better than they were three years ago
but you know very well David because
you're into the world of regulation I
think there's maybe one of the biggest
things we've done
I've cut regulations more than any
president whether they are eight years
four years or in one case quite a bit
more than eight years I cut more than
any other president in the history of
our country and I did it in less than
three years so it's a great question the
EPA was this is why I was able to get
the country going because so many jobs
were stopped but not only EPA so many
other agencies were you'd have to go get
eleven different permits for essentially
the same thing I opened up LNG plants in
Louisiana where they were for years for
10 12 14 years and longer trying to get
permits they couldn't get permits
I got a bill a 10 billion dollar plant
in Louisiana the Keystone XL pipeline I
gave it in my first week I got approval
the Dakota access pipeline I got the
approval 48,000 jobs and and frankly
it's more environmentally you know it's
better than having the train going up
and down tracks and you don't know what
happens with the train plenty of bad
things happen with those trains here
you're underground environmentally
better so I think it's a great question
we're really one of the reasons the
economy is so strong is because of what
we did with regulations if the other
side will quote the other side
affectionately got in they would have
made regulations much much tougher let's
say we're gonna a follow-up question
because you are really the the typical
voter I think your life watry lifelong
Democrat who crossed over and voted for
President Trump in 2016 in areas like we
are in right now in Luzerne and
Lackawanna County so you know obviously
now Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders whoever
it is is going to try to get your vote
back so I'm just I'm curious is there
anything that or any issue that they
could answer for you that would change
your mind do you
I'm focused on the economy and on
regulation and deregulation and I like
what's happened in the country in the
last four years and thank you thankful
for your efforts sir and I hope we can
continue I think they thought you were
going to give them a different that
sounded like a set up question no no no
David you're my man you know how voters
like you are gonna vote next time around
because we love to follow the story of
the movement of the electoral and I
think it's fascinating that you you know
answered as you did well mother this
area of Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania
itself has the best numbers its ever had
it's got the best economy its ever had
has the best unemployment numbers its
ever have had and Scranton has the
lowest and best unemployment numbers
they've and employment numbers to that
they've ever had by far so you know
we're very happy about the job the
people in Pennsylvania they're very
happy with the job you know it was 30
years since a Republican won
Pennsylvania and based on results I
think will win it again very easily
and
because Elizabeth Warren dropped out
today and I want to know what your
reaction to that was well look if she's
a true progressive which probably she is
she should have dropped out three days
ago would have been a whole different
race Texas was close she got votes she
didn't do well but she got a lot of
votes far more than the difference
think about Maine Maine was almost a tie
they had a wait a day and a half before
they could even call it it was so close
she I guess came in third and it was you
know a very distant third but she got a
lot of votes Maine would have gone to
think he would have gotten everything
right Bernie Sanders would have won five
six seven states would have won
Minnesota would have won at least
another two or three states so when you
look at it she did him no favors that
was not a good friendship that was that
we started to see that during the
debates by the way that one that became
unhinged yeah but but you know if she
would have gone and she didn't even have
to endorse him if she weren't if she
just dropped out of the race without an
endorsement he would have won a
tremendous number of states that he lost
you know he lost States by not very much
and she got enough votes that it would
have made a big difference I think he
would be leading by a lot right now had
she not been in the race you know
tonight you're in the boyhood home
obviously of Joe Biden who is sort of
like a phoenix from the ashes in this
Democratic race and tonight looks likely
that he could get the Democratic
nomination now Democrats insist that you
were impeached because you were trying
to damage Joe Biden were you so is a
fake impeachment
[Music]
we had a hundred think of it and the
Republicans in the house we had a
hundred and seven 196 votes in favor
zero from the Republicans zero against
we picked up three Democrat votes on top
of that and we had one Democrat was so
angry by it that he left the party
became a Republican which i think is the
first time because he left a majority
and wanted to monarda van drew and and
it was a whole fake deal and everybody
knows that I made a phone call it was a
perfect phone call there was nothing
wrong with it and they said let's
impeach now the real backstory is when
the phony whistleblower who's a total
phony
he heard the call supposedly you know
through somebody through the informant
you notice the way everybody disappeared
once thank goodness I had a transcriber
we had more than one thank goodness we
had that call transcribed because the
transcripts of the call revealed that it
was a perfect call by that time they
were already talking about impeachment
and they were going by a phony
whistleblower rendition of a call that
didn't exist just like Adam Schiff he
goes before Congress and he starts
talking about eight quid pro quos and
don't call me I'll call you well that's
a mob expression don't call me up and
everybody's saying that's a terrible
call he made it up it was totally made
up and I said oh good we'll sue him
we'll take him down and then I find out
he's got immunity because he made it in
Congress it should almost be the
opposite you should almost have to be
more honest if you're in Congress do you
think Biden is now you think he's
damaged I think
Biden has been damaged yeah a lot of
people I saw a couple of statements very
strong statements by very respected
people in your world saying they aimed
at Trump and they took Biden down and
really that's what happened when you
think because you look at the son here's
a guy didn't have a job was
unfortunately sadly the military was a
very sad experience for him he goes out
he gets three million dollars plus 183
thousand dollars a month to be a board
member of a company that a lot of people
said was corrupt
worse just as bad China I just made a
great China deal China's paying us
billions and billions of dollars because
of what I did to them with tariffs
billions of dollars I mean to a point
where my farmers are in love with me
because I took some of that money gave
it to them but his son walks out of
China with a billion and a half dollars
for a fund now a billion and a half
dollars for a fund mean he's going to
make hundreds of thousands of dollars a
year and much more than that so you want
to face Joe Biden or Bernie Sanders
that's my question okay I was all set
for Bernie because I thought it was
gonna happen you know we get ready for
things right so mentally I'm all set for
burning communists I had everything down
he's act I was all set and then we have
this crazy thing that happened right on
Tuesday which he thought was Thursday
but he also said a hundred and fifty
million people were killed with guns and
he was running for the United States
Senate support me I'm running for the
United States there's something going on
there but I was all set I was all set
and you know when I focus and we all
focus sometimes you do well and some
people choke I watched mini Mike choke
when mini Mike was hit by a very mean
woman he said get me off this stage just
get me off and and that wasn't a pretty
sight to be wait but but I was all set
to take on Bernie
I was ready and then all of a sudden
they say guess what I went to the first
lady oh people love they go into the
house and I said I said he just won
Texas he just won you know etc etc and
by the way is so close it was a whole
different thing because of her so now
I'm ready for Bernie and now all of a
sudden I have a whole different year
it's a whole different deal two very
different people I think in a certain
way Bernie would be tougher because he's
got a base it's a much smaller base than
my base I think a lot of my people are
here because and I did nothing to do
that but we have a lot of support in
Pennsylvania I think we have a lot of
support everywhere look at the rallies
but I was all set I was all set for
Bernie I was ready to go and then I say
you know I don't think I'm running
against Bernie I think it's going to be
very hard for him to come back